[DOCS-8448] Add missing RUM iOS API (#25122)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/advanced_configuration/ios.md

You can use the following properties in `Datadog.Configuration` when creating the Datadog configuration to initialize the library:

> `clientToken`

Reviewer: Global comment: I think you should alphabetize these definition lists

> : Either the RUM client token (which supports RUM, Logging, and APM) or regular client token, (which supports Logging and APM).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Either the RUM client token (which supports RUM, Logging, and APM) or the regular client token (which supports Logging and APM).
```

`env`

> : The environment name that is sent to Datadog. This can be used to filter events on different environments (such as `staging` or `production`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The environment name that is sent to Datadog. This can be used to filter events by different environments (such as `staging` or `production`).
```

`site`
: Sets the Datadog server endpoint that data is sent to. The default value is `.us1`.

`service`
: The service name associated with data sent to Datadog. The default value is set to the application bundle identifier.

`bundle`
: The bundle object that contains the current executable.

`batchSize`
: Sets the preferred size of batched data uploaded to Datadog. This value impacts the size and number of requests performed by the RUM iOS SDK (small batches mean more requests, but each request becomes smaller in size). Available values include: `.small`, `.medium`, and `.large`.

`uploadFrequency`
: Sets the preferred frequency of uploading data to Datadog. Available values include: `.frequent`, `.average`, and `.rare`.

`proxyConfiguration`

> : Enter a proxy configuration attribute, which can be used to enable a custom proxy for uploading tracked data to Datadog's intake.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: A proxy configuration attribute which can be used to enable a custom proxy for uploading tracked data to Datadog's intake.
```

`encryption`
: Data encryption to use for on-disk data persistency by providing an object that complies with the `DataEncryption` protocol.

`serverDateProvider`

> : A custom NTP synchronization interface. By default, the Datadog SDK synchronizes with dedicated NTP pools provided by the [NTP Pool Project][13]. Using different pools or setting a no operation `ServerDateProvider` implementation results in a de-synchronization of the SDK instance and the Datadog servers. This can lead to significant time shifts in RUM sessions or distributed traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: A custom NTP synchronization interface. By default, the Datadog SDK synchronizes with dedicated NTP pools provided by the [NTP Pool Project][13]. Using different pools or setting a no operation `ServerDateProvider` implementation results in de-synchronization of the SDK instance and Datadog servers. This can lead to significant time shifts in RUM sessions or distributed traces.
```

Reviewer: Would it be possible to put the last two sentences of this in a warning format?

Author: No, unfortunately there's no nice way to do this. The alert box breaks this table, and adding **Note**: breaks the NTP Pool Project link.

`backgroundTasksEnabled`

> : This flag determines if the `UIApplication` methods, `beginBackgroundTask(expirationHandler:)` and `endBackgroundTask:` are used to perform background uploads. It may extend the amount of time the app operates in the background by 30 seconds. Tasks are normally stopped when there's nothing to upload or when encountering any upload blockers, such as no internet connection or low battery. By default, this setting is sent to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: This flag determines if the `UIApplication` methods `beginBackgroundTask(expirationHandler:)` and `endBackgroundTask:` are used to perform background uploads. Enabling this flag might increase the amount of time that the app operates in the background by 30 seconds. Tasks are normally stopped when there's nothing to upload or when encountering a blocker to uploading, such as having no internet connection or having a low battery. By default, this flag is set to `false`.
```

`bundle`
: The bundle object that contains the current executable.

`clientToken`
: Either the RUM client token (which supports RUM, Logging, and APM) or the regular client token (which supports Logging and APM).

`encryption`
: Data encryption to use for on-disk data persistency by providing an object that complies with the `DataEncryption` protocol.

`env`
: The environment name that is sent to Datadog. This can be used to filter events by different environments (such as `staging` or `production`).

`proxyConfiguration`
: A proxy configuration attribute which can be used to enable a custom proxy for uploading tracked data to Datadog's intake.

`serverDateProvider`
: A custom NTP synchronization interface. By default, the Datadog SDK synchronizes with dedicated NTP pools provided by the [NTP Pool Project][13]. Using different pools or setting a no operation `ServerDateProvider` implementation results in a de-synchronization of the SDK instance and the Datadog servers. This can lead to significant time shifts in RUM sessions or distributed traces.

`service`

> : The service name associated with data sent to Datadog. The default value is set to the application bundle identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The service name associated with data sent to Datadog. The default value is the application bundle identifier.
```

`site`

> : Sets the Datadog server endpoint that data is sent to. The default value is `.us1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The Datadog server endpoint that data is sent to. The default value is `.us1`.
```

`uploadFrequency`

> : Sets the preferred frequency of uploading data to Datadog. Available values include: `.frequent`, `.average`, and `.rare`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The preferred frequency of uploading data to Datadog. Available values include: `.frequent`, `.average`, and `.rare`.
```

### RUM configuration

You can use the following properties in `RUM.Configuration` when enabling RUM:

`actionEventMapper`
: Sets the data scrubbing callback for actions. This can be used to modify or drop action events before they are sent to Datadog. For more information, see [Modify or drop RUM events](#modify-or-drop-rum-events).

`appHangThreshold`

> : Sets the threshold for reporting when an app hangs. The minimum allowed value for this option is `0.1` seconds. To disable app hangs reporting, set this to `nil`. For more information, see [Add app hang reporting][10].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Sets the threshold for reporting when an app hangs. The minimum allowed value for this option is `0.1` seconds. To disable reporting, set this value to `nil`. For more information, see [Add app hang reporting][10].
```

`applicationID`
: The RUM application identifier.

`customEndpoint`
: A custom server URL for sending RUM data.

`errorEventMapper`

> : Sets the data scrubbing callback for errors. This can be used to modify or drop error events before they are sent to Datadog. For more information, see [Modify or drop RUM events](#modify-or-drop-rum-events).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The data scrubbing callback for errors. This can be used to modify or drop error events before they are sent to Datadog. For more information, see [Modify or drop RUM events](#modify-or-drop-rum-events).
```

`longTaskEventMapper`

> : Sets the data scrubbing callback for long tasks. This can be used to modify or drop long task events before they are sent to Datadog. For more information, see [Modify or drop RUM events](#modify-or-drop-rum-events).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The data scrubbing callback for long tasks. This can be used to modify or drop long task events before they are sent to Datadog. For more information, see [Modify or drop RUM events](#modify-or-drop-rum-events).
```

`longTaskThreshold`
: The threshold for RUM long tasks tracking (in seconds). By default, this is sent to `0.1` seconds.

`onSessionStart`

> : Enter a method that gets called when RUM starts the session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The method that gets called when RUM starts the session.
```

`resourceEventMapper`

> : Sets the data scrubbing callback for resources. This can be used to modify or drop resource events before they are sent to Datadog. For more information, see [Modify or drop RUM events](#modify-or-drop-rum-events).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The data scrubbing callback for resources. This can be used to modify or drop resource events before they are sent to Datadog. For more information, see [Modify or drop RUM events](#modify-or-drop-rum-events).
```

`sessionSampleRate`

> : Sets the sampling rate for RUM sessions. The `sessionSampleRate` value must be between `0.0` and `100.0`. A value of `0.0` means no sessions are sent, `100.0` means all sessions are sent to Datadog. If not configured, the default value of `100.0` is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The sampling rate for RUM sessions. The `sessionSampleRate` value must be between `0.0` and `100.0`. A value of `0.0` means no sessions are sent, while `100.0` means that all sessions are sent to Datadog. The default value is `100.0`.
```

`telemetrySampleRate`
: The sampling rate for the SDK internal telemetry utilized by Datadog. This must be a value between `0` and `100`. By default, this is set to `20`.

`trackFrustrations`
: Determines whether automatic tracking of user frustrations is enabled. By default, this is set to `true`.

`trackBackgroundEvents`
: Determines whether RUM events are tracked when no view is active. By default, this is set to `false`.

`trackWatchdogTerminations`

> : This setting determines whether the SDK should track application terminations performed by Watchdog. The default setting is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Determines whether the SDK should track application terminations performed by Watchdog. The default setting is `false`.
```

`uiKitActionsPredicate`
: Enables tracking user interactions (taps) as RUM actions. You can use the default implementation of `predicate` by setting the `DefaultUIKitRUMActionsPredicate` or implement [your own `UIKitRUMActionsPredicate`](#automatically-track-user-actions) customized for your app.

`uiKitViewsPredicate`
: Enables tracking `UIViewControllers` as RUM views. You can use default implementation of `predicate` by setting the `DefaultUIKitRUMViewsPredicate` or implement [your own `UIKitRUMViewsPredicate`](#automatically-track-views) customized for your app.

`urlSessionTracking`
: Enables tracking `URLSession` tasks (network requests) as RUM resources. The `firstPartyHostsTracing` parameter defines hosts that are categorized as `first-party` resources (if RUM is enabled) and have tracing information injected (if tracing feature is enabled). The `resourceAttributesProvider` parameter defines a closure to provide custom attributes for intercepted resources that is called for each resource collected by the RUM iOS SDK. This closure is called with task information and may return custom resource attributes or `nil` if no attributes should be attached.

`viewEventMapper`

> : Sets the data scrubbing callback for views. This can be used to modify view events before they are sent to Datadog. For more information, see [Modify or drop RUM events](#modify-or-drop-rum-events).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The data scrubbing callback for views. This can be used to modify view events before they are sent to Datadog. For more information, see [Modify or drop RUM events](#modify-or-drop-rum-events).
```

`vitalsUpdateFrequency`

> : Sets the preferred frequency for collecting mobile vitals. Available values include: `.frequent` (every 100ms), `.average` (every 500ms), `.rare` (every 1s), and `.never` (which disables vitals monitoring).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The preferred frequency for collecting mobile vitals. Available values include: `.frequent` (every 100ms), `.average` (every 500ms), `.rare` (every 1s), and `.never` (which disables vitals monitoring).
```

`urlSessionTracking`
: Enables tracking `URLSession` tasks (network requests) as RUM resources. The `firstPartyHostsTracing` parameter defines hosts that are categorized as `first-party` resources (if RUM is enabled) and have tracing information injected (if tracing feature is enabled). The `resourceAttributesProvider` parameter defines a closure to provide custom attributes for intercepted resources that is called for each resource collected by the RUM iOS SDK. This closure is called with task information and may return custom resource attributes or `nil` if no attributes should be attached.

`trackFrustrations`

> : Determines whether automatic tracking of user frustrations should be enabled. By default, this is set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Determines whether automatic tracking of user frustrations is enabled. By default, this is set to `true`.
```

`trackBackgroundEvents`

> : Determines whether RUM events should be tracked when no view is active. By default, this is set to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Determines whether RUM events are tracked when no view is active. By default, this is set to `false`.
```

`longTaskThreshold`
: The threshold for RUM long tasks tracking (in seconds). By default, this is sent to `0.1` seconds.

`appHangThreshold`

> : Sets the threshold for reporting app hangs. The minimum allowed value for this option is `0.1` seconds. To disable app hangs reporting, set this to `nil`. For more information, see [Add app hang reporting][10].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Sets the threshold for reporting when an app hangs. The minimum allowed value for this option is `0.1` seconds. To disable app hangs reporting, set this to `nil`. For more information, see [Add app hang reporting][10].
```

`trackWatchdogTerminations`

> : This setting determines whether the SDK should track application termination by Watchdog. The default setting is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: This setting determines whether the SDK should track application terminations performed by Watchdog. The default setting is `false`.
```

`vitalsUpdateFrequency`

> : Sets the preferred frequency of collecting mobile vitals. Available values include: `.frequent` (every 100ms), `.average` (every 500ms), `.rare` (every 1s), and `.never` (disable vitals monitoring).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Sets the preferred frequency for collecting mobile vitals. Available values include: `.frequent` (every 100ms), `.average` (every 500ms), `.rare` (every 1s), and `.never` (which disables vitals monitoring).
```

`longTaskEventMapper`
: Sets the data scrubbing callback for long tasks. This can be used to modify or drop long task events before they are sent to Datadog. For more information, see [Modify or drop RUM events](#modify-or-drop-rum-events).

`onSessionStart`

> : Enter a method that gets called when RUM starts the session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: A method that gets called when RUM starts the session.
```

Reviewer: Is this optional?

Reviewer 2: Yes, it's optional

`customEndpoint`
: A custom server URL for sending RUM data.

`telemetrySampleRate`

> : The sampling rate for the SDK internal telemetry utilized by Datadog. This must be a value between `0` and `100`. By default, this is set to `20`.

Reviewer: I don't understand this as written. Can you elaborate?

Author: Added more detail.

- If you change the value to `.granted`, the RUM iOS SDK sends all current and future data to Datadog;
- If you change the value to `.notGranted`, the RUM iOS SDK wipes all current data and does not collect future data.

## Add user properties

You can use the `addUserExtraInfo` API to append extra user properties to previously set properties.

```swift
   public static func addUserExtraInfo(
       _ extraInfo: [AttributeKey: AttributeValue?],
       in core: DatadogCoreProtocol = CoreRegistry.default
   ) {
       let core = core as? DatadogCore
       core?.addUserExtraInfo(extraInfo)
   }
```

## Data management

> The iOS SDK first stores events and only uploads events when the [intake specifications][11] conditions are met.

Reviewer: Where does it store events?

Reviewer 2: We can mention "first locally stores events" IMO

> The iOS SDK first stores events and only uploads events when the [intake specifications][11] conditions are met.

Author: ```suggestion
The iOS SDK first stores events locally and only uploads events when the [intake specifications][11] conditions are met.
```

### Clear all data

You have the option of deleting all unsent data stored by the SDK with the `clearAllData` API.

```swift
   public static func clearAllData(in core: DatadogCoreProtocol = CoreRegistry.default) {
       let core = core as? DatadogCore
       core?.clearAllData()
   }
```

### Stop data collection

> You can use the `StopInstance` API to stop the SDK instance assigned to the given name (or the default instance if the name is null) from collecting and uploading data further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `StopInstance` API to stop a named SDK instance (or the default instance if the name is null) from collecting and uploading data further.
```

```swift
   public static func stopInstance(named instanceName: String = CoreRegistry.defaultInstanceName) {
       let core = CoreRegistry.unregisterInstance(named: instanceName) as? DatadogCore
       core?.stop()
   }
```

### Set remote log threshold

> You can define the minimum log level (priority) to send events to Datadog in a logger instance. If the log priority is below the one you set at this threshold, it does not get sent. The default value is `debug` (allow all).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define the minimum log level (priority) at which to send events to Datadog in a logger instance. If the log's priority is below the one you set in this threshold, the log does not get sent. The default value is `debug` (allow all).
```

### Set remote log threshold

> You can define the minimum log level (priority) at which to send events to Datadog in a logger instance. If the log's priority is below the one you set in this threshold, the log does not get sent. The default value is `debug` (allow all).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define the minimum log level (priority) at which to send events to Datadog in a logger instance. If the log's priority is below the one you set in this threshold, the log does not get sent. The default value is `debug` (send all logs).
```
